\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@setfilename nxt
@settitle NXT Bluetooth Communication From Lisp
@c %**end of header

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2010-2011, Willem Rein Oudshoorn
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the <organization> nor the
      names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL WILLEM REIN OUDSHOORN BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title NXT Bluetooth
@subtitle Communications From Lisp
@author Willem Rein Oudshoorn

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Short Sample (what is this?)

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu

* Introduction:: Explains everything
* Making a Connection:: Setting up the Bluetooth communication
* NXT Commands:: The lisp wrapper of the NXT commands
* Higher Level Functions:: 
* NXT Error Codes:: List of error the NXT can return
* Index:: Where is it?

@end menu


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

This small Common Lisp package implements almost all NXT commands and direct
NXT commands as described in the LEGO NXT documentation.  



@node Making a Connection
@chapter Making a Connection

The communication with the NXT is with bluetooth, but the actual
bluetooth communication should be abstracted away behind a serial device
which can be opened as a file by the common lisp system.  

@defvr Variable *nxt-bluetooth-device* 
       
Contains the default device name used by the
@code{open-connection} command.  This variable, or the argumet to @code{open-connect}
should be a serial device which connects to the NXT brick.  
Because this library assumes that the data send to the device is formatted
for the NXT bluetooth protocol, it only works if the device talks to
the NXT over bluetooth.

@end defvr

@defvr {Private Variable} *connection*

Contains the stream that connects to the NXT brick.  Writing and reading
to this stream will send raw bytes to the NXT.  This variable is used by all the 
functions which talk to the NXT and is modified by @code{open-connection} and
@code{close-connection}.  There is normally no need to access or use this
variable directly.

@end defvr

@deffn Function open-connection &optional (dev-name *nxt-bluetooth-device*)

@end deffn

@node NXT Commands
@chapter NXT Commands

@deffn  Function nxt-open-read &key file-name
@deffnx Function nxt-open-write &key file-name file-size
@deffnx Function nxt-read &key handle nr-of-bytes
@deffnx Function nxt-write &key handle data
@deffnx Function nxt-close &key handle
@deffnx Function nxt-delete &key file-name 
@deffnx Function nxt-find-first &key file-name
@deffnx Function nxt-find-next &key handle
@deffnx Function nxt-get-firmware-version
@deffnx Function nxt-get-device-info
@deffnx Function nxt-request-first-module &key resource-name
@deffnx Function nxt-request-next-module &key handle
@deffnx Function nxt-close-module-handle &key handle
@deffnx Function nxt-start-program &key file-name
@deffnx Function nxt-stop-program
@deffnx Function nxt-play-sound-file &key loop file-name
@deffnx Function nxt-play-tone &key frequency duration
@deffnx Function nxt-set-output-state &key output-port power-set-point mode regulation-mode turn-ratio run-state tacho-limit
@deffnx Function nxt-set-input-mode &key input-port sensor-type sensor-mode
@deffnx Function nxt-get-output-state &key output-port
@deffnx Function nxt-get-input-values &key input-port
@deffnx Function nxt-reset-input-scaled-value &key input-port
@deffnx Function nxt-message-write &key inbox message-data
@deffnx Function nxt-reset-motor-position &key output-port relative
@deffnx Function nxt-get-battery-level
@deffnx Function nxt-stop-sound-playback
@deffnx Function nxt-keep-alive
@deffnx Function nxt-ls-get-status &key port
@deffnx Function nxt-ls-write &key port rx-data-length tx-data
@deffnx Function nxt-ls-read &key port
@deffnx Function nxt-get-current-program-name
@deffnx Function nxt-message-read &key remote-inbox local-inbox remove

These commands call the corresponding command on the brick.  The
keyword arguments are of the following types

@table @code
@item file-name
String of at most 19 characters.
@item file-size
An integer of at most 2^32.
@item handle
An integer of at most 2^16
@item nr-of-bytes
An integer of at most 2^16
@item data
A vector of octets.
@item resource-name
A string of at most 19 characters.
@item loop 
A byte value, interpreted as a boolean.
@item frequency
An integer of 16 bit wide.
@item duration
An integer of 16 bit wide.
@end table
@end deffn


The following commands are not implemented yet

@deffn Function nxt-open-write-linear &key file-name file-size
@deffnx Function nxt-open-read-linear &key file-name
@deffnx Function nxt-open-write-data &key file-name file-size
@deffnx Function nxt-open-append-data &key file-name
@deffnx Function nxt-boot &key password
@deffnx Function nxt-set-brick-name &key name
@deffnx Function nxt-delete-user-flash
@deffnx Function nxt-poll-command-length &key buffer-number
@deffnx Function nxt-poll &key buffer-number
@deffnx Function nxt-bluetooth-factory-reset

These functions are not implemented yet for various reasons.  For example @code{bluetooth-factory-reset} can not
be sent over bluetooth according to the documentation and @code{delete-user-flash} sound just to scary.  
But for most of them,  just haven't had the need.

@end deffn

@node Higher Level Functions
@chapter Higer Level Functions


@deffn Function find-all-files
       
Returns a list of files, where each file is represented
as an alist containing the following keys
       
@table @code
@item status 
Should always be @code{:succes}.  Otherwise something strange 
is going on.   For a list of return states @xref{NXT Error Codes}.
@item handle
Is an integer which is irrelevant. It is the handle used
to retrieve the list of files
@item file-name
The name of the file represented by this alist.
@item file-size
The size of the file represented by this alist.
@end table
@end deffn       


@deffn Function find-all-modules

Returns a list of all modules installed on the NXT.  Each
module is represented by an alist with the following keys

@table @code
@item status
Should always be @code{:succes}.  If not, @xref{NXT Error Codes}.
@item handle
Is irrelevant.  It is the handle used to query the NXT for modules.
@item moduel-name
The name of the module
@item module-id
An integer which acts as an module id.  This is used in ???
@item module-size
 The size of the module.  I assume in bytes, and I don't know if it is
relevant, except for knowing how much space it takes up in FLASH
memory.
@item io-map-size
The size of the IO-map.  
@end table
@end deffn

@deffn Function get-file file-name
       
This function retrieves the content of a file on the NXT, identified
by file-name.  If this call is successfull 
it returns the content of the file as a vector of octets/bytes.
If the call fails, it returns an alist of the result of 
the offending call.  The alist contains at least the following keys

@table @code
@item status
Contains the error code for the offending call.  Error codes are
listed in @xref{NXT Error Codes}.
@item handle
The handle which is used to retrieve the data.
@end table             
@end deffn       

@deffn Function put-file file-name data

A function which creates a file on the NXT with name @code{file-name}
and content @code{data}.  The data argument is either a vector or a string.

The return value is either the result of the failed open call or the result
of the close handle call.   The returned assoc list contains at least
the key @code{status} with one of the error code listed in @xref{NXT Error Codes}.
@end deffn


@deffn Function copy-file-from-nxt file-name-nxt file-name

Copies a files from the NXT to the local file system.  The file on the NXT is @code{file-name-nxt}
and the local file name @code{file-name}.   

No error checking is done, if e.g. the file does not exist on the NXT, the function
might generate all kinds of errors.
@end deffn

@deffn Function copy-file-to-nxt file-name file-name-nxt

Copies a file from the local file system to the NXT.  The local file name is called @code{file-name}
and the file on the NXT is called @code{file-name-nxt}.

No error checking is done.  If for example the file @code{file-name} can not be opened for reading,
it probably raises a condition, but no guarantees are given.
@end deffn

@node NXT Error Codes
@chapter NXT Error Codes

@multitable @columnfractions 0.15 0.85
@headitem Value @tab Symbol
@item #x00 
@tab @code {:succes}
@item #x20
@tab @code {:pending-communication-transaction-in-progress}
@item #x40
@tab @code {:speficied-mailbox-queue-is-empty}
@item #x81
@tab @code {:no-more-handles}
@item #x82
@tab @code {:no-space}
@item #x83
@tab @code {:no-more-files}
@item #x84
@tab @code {:end-of-file-expected}
@item #x85
@tab @code {:end-of-file}
@item #x86
@tab @code {:not-a-linear-file}
@item #x87
@tab @code {:file-not-found}
@item #x88
@tab @code {:handle-all-ready-closed}
@item #x89
@tab @code {:no-linear-space}
@item #x8a
@tab @code {:undefined-error}
@item #x8b
@tab @code {:file-busy}
@item #x8c
@tab @code {:no-write-buffers}
@item #x8d
@tab @code {:append-not-possible}
@item #x8e
@tab @code {:file-is-full}
@item #x8f
@tab @code {:file-exists}
@item #x90
@tab @code {:module-not-found}
@item #x91
@tab @code {:out-of-boundary}
@item #x92
@tab @code {:illegal-file-name}
@item #x93
@tab @code {:illegal-handle}
@item #xbd
@tab @code {:request-failed}
@item #xbe
@tab @code {:unknown-command-opcode}
@item #xbf
@tab @code {:insane-packet}
@item #xc0
@tab @code {:dta-contains-out-of-range-values}
@item #xdd
@tab @code {:communication-bus-error}
@item #xde
@tab @code {:no-free-memory-in-communication-buffer}
@item #xdf
@tab @code {:specified-channel/connection-is-not-valid}
@item #xe0
@tab @code {:specified-channel/connection-not-configured-or-busy}
@item #xec
@tab @code {:no-active-program}
@item #xed
@tab @code {:illegal-size-specified}
@item #xee
@tab @code {:illegal-mailbox-queue-id-specified}
@item #xef
@tab @code {:attempted-to-access-invalid-field-of-structure}
@item #xf0
@tab @code {:bad-input-or-output-specified}
@item #xfb
@tab @code {:insufficient-memory-available}
@item #xff
@tab @code {:bad-arguments}
@end multitable

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

